# Assignment 1
## Domains
1) **Reading** : I love reading books. I have many different books I want to read across many different genres. Going to libraries and used book stores is always so fun because I get to find new books to read. I often feel like I don't have enough time to read, especially during the semester. 
2) Crocheting 
3) Hanging out with friends 
4) Waking up early 
5) Decorating 
6) Language learning
7) Going to restaurants/trying new food 
8) Data collecting (ex. Spotify wrapped)
9) **Fish tanks** : My family has had a salt water fish tank for almost as long as I have been alive. Everyone in my family loves the fish, but my dad is particularly passionate about the hobby of fish tanks. We have a 19 year old clown fish named Kimmy. Fish are often mistreated as pets, but after having fish for so long it is quite interesting to see how different fish have different personalities. Keeping fish can be very difficult because different fish have different requirements related to salinity, tank size, food, and tank mates. 
10) **Social media** : Social media is an interesting double edged sword. On one hand apps such as snapchat allow me to stay in contact with friends in a very easy way. Other apps like instagram allow me to share parts of my life with my friends while being able to see parts of their life. Youtube has many interesting videos about pretty much every topic completely free for users to watch. On the other hand, it acts as an addicting time sink, when I scroll endlessly for long periods of time it turns a positive into a negative. 
## Problems
  ### Reading :
  > **Distractions while reading** : I often feel like during the semester I have no time to read, however I know that some of the time I spend watching shows or playing on my phone could be spent reading. The problem of better allocating free time to include reading is a problem I selected because it is a problem that I personally struggle with and it is a problem that seems to be quite common. 

  > Wanting to talk to someone about a book, but having no one to talk with about it : In order for this idea to properly work it would need a large number of users who do not know each other, because if they did know each other they would already have someone to talk to about the book.

  > No ideas for what to read next : I chose to not include this problem because there are already so many resources on figuring out what book to read next online and in person. Those who work at book stores and libraries are often incredibly willing to help along with having the needed skillset. Online there are forums and websites designed to help readers figure out what they want to read next based on the books they have read in the past. Overall, there is a lack of need for this product because there are already many solutions. 
  ### Fish tanks:
>**Fish Compatibility** : In order for a fish to thrive it needs to be in the right environment. This environment includes factors such as size of the fish tank, salinity, food, size of the tank, and compatibility with other fish. While research is very important, it is often quite difficult. This problem is something that could very well be automated and there is a need for, while of course it is possible for someone to research independently, speaking from experience it can be hard to find the information for your specific tank. 

>Mass dying events : Mass dying events are when all or most of the fish in a fish tank die for some reason or another. I chose not to pick this problem because it is often a manual solution and the problem is usually low oxygen so identifying it with some form of app is not the most useful. 

>Algal blooms : Algal blooms are when algae overgrows in a fish tank for some reason or another. When such events occur they can lead to mass dying events due to the overuse of oxygen. The reason I did not select this problem is similar to why I did not select mass dying events, it is because both the solution and the reasoning are incredibly googlable and do not need an app to tell you what to do or to identify a problem. 
  ### Social media:
>**Spending too much time on social media** : Social media is a known time sink. I personally really struggle with being unable to use social media for a reasonable amount of time, I frequently start scrolling and lose hours without even realizing it. I have 4 different screen time limiting apps, whose varying features I try and use to fix this issue, even with all of these features combined, even with these apps I still overuse my phone by requesting to break through screentime blocks, or in some cases, deleting apps. I have selected this problem because I know I am one of many people who struggle with this issue. While there are many apps out there that exist for this issue, I have not been able to find a combo that truly works for me, and I imagine the same is applicable for many others. 
			
>Missing too many important notifications : There are people who use social media to stay in contact with people, however these messages can be lost amongst less important or less time sensitive messages. While this is a problem for some, I did not end up selecting because I don’t believe there is a significant enough number of people with this issue who will end up needing an entire app to solve the problem, additionally, if the problem was that serious for some people they would likely request to use a different messaging service like iMessage.

>Following spam bots : Spam bots are a prominent issue on social media. From bots that impersonate people you follow, to bots that spam follow requests, they are annoying and can be a potential security threat. While this is a prominent issue, I did not select the problem because I believe at this point in time there are more people who need a solution to the problem of spending too much time on social media than a solution to the problem of spam bots. Even when people do accidentally follow these bots, the majority of harm is done when they give them some form of information, and a majority of people know not to do this.  

## Stakeholders
  ### Distractions while reading :
>**Readers** : The individual who reads the books and the end user of the product. There are many benefits to individuals who read. By providing a way to encourage individuals to increase the amount of free time they spend reading, it allows them to actually receive the benefits of this hobby. Additionally, it would allow people to spend more time doing what they enjoy, when they would typically get distracted.  

>**Libraries and local book stores** : Libraries and local book stores are an important aspect to society, they provide free or affordable access to books to communities who may not always be able to afford them. With the rise in the internet, there are less and less readers. This decrease in reading by the population is both harmful for the population and for libraries and local books stores. With fewer readers, more and more of such stores and libraries will go out of business, a solution to the problem of distracted reading and less reading will benefit libraries and book stores by providing more readers.

>**Educators** : Educators want students to learn and succeed academically. Students who read are more likely to perform better academically in all subjects. Encouraging students to read by limiting distractions, especially in an era filled with distractions, aids in the overall goal of the success of students. 

  ### Fish Compatibility :
>**Fish owners** :  Fish are regarded as ‘easy pets’ and in many ways they are, which is why there are so many fish owners, however there is still research required for properly taking care of fish, just like any other animal. Generally speaking, no one who buys a fish wants that fish to die, creating an app that makes research easier for fish owners will drastically improve the experience people will have in owning fish by making the probability their fish die far less likely, saving both money and emotional heartache.

>**Fish** :  The common misconception that fish don’t feel pain so the neglect is more acceptable is a false narrative. While I don't blame the miseducated fish owner who often is doing what they think is right, many pet fish live unnecessarily short and painful lives. A solution to the difficulty of finding fish compatible with your specific tank set up would allow for more pet fish to thrive, living long and healthy lives. 

>**Fish store owners/employees** : There are many different types of places to buy fish. Smaller, more local fish stores tend to care about the wellbeing of the fish they are selling and have employees who want to help the customers who are buying. These types of stores would benefit from a product that would make the process of researching fish easier. On the other hand larger companies, such as Petco, are known for mistreating the fish at their own store and having employees who are uneducated in relation to fish. Such stores may benefit from a customer being misinformed in regards to fish as it leads to higher profits from people buying more fish. Such companies would not benefit from a product that made customers more educated about owning fish. 

  ### Spending too much time on social media :
>**Social media user**: Many people use social media, of these individuals many have a negative relationship with such apps, in some cases an addiction. Social media addictions can take away so much of a person's time. It can lead to less meaningful connections with people they know, harmful to their productivity at work and school, take away from hobbies and passions, and even lead to harmful real life consequences(ex. cyber bullying). Having a way to fix and limit social media time can have many positive impacts on the individual, including improved social life, productivity, and passions. Many people have a desire to fix this problem but don't find the current screen time apps to be fixing the problem in a way that works for them. 

>**Social media company**: Social media is designed to be addicting. These companies benefit from people spending more time on their apps, as a result they design them to make it hard to leave the app. This stakeholder would not benefit from a screen time app. This type of stakeholder is important to keep in mind to see what kind of tactics they would use that might hurt the success of a screen time app. 

>**Family and friends of chronic social media users**: Social media is built to connect people, but in the process it often isolates people from their loved ones in real life. When people are able to spend less time on their phone, they are able to spend more time with the people they care about, benefiting the family and friends of the user of this product.

## Evidence
  ### Distractions while reading :
> [The Importance of Reading Skills](https://www.cal-pacs.org/teaching-tips/the-importance-of-reading/#:~:text=Research%20shows%20that%20students%20who,and%20retain%20new%20information%20effectively.): It has been shown that students who read well are able to perform better across all areas of academics. As such, improving reading by reading more leads to greater academic success. On top of that, reading stimulates both imagination and creativity. 

> [Benefits of Reading Books: How It Can Positively Affect Your Life](https://www.healthline.com/health/benefits-of-reading-books#benefits-older-adults): Studies have shown that reading for adults strengthens the brain, imrpoves sleep, increasses empathy, and grows vocabulary. Certain studies even suggest reading may help people live longer. Reading more is overall beneficial to ones health. 

>[The Screen Time Paradox: How Social Media is Both Eroding and Revitalizing Reading](https://medium.com/@adnanmasood/the-screen-time-paradox-how-social-media-is-both-eroding-and-revitalizing-reading-79b2d04a5a32): Studies show that the number of youth reading for fun has decreased from 35% in 1984 to 17% in 2019-20. US adults time spent leasure reading has gone down from 23 minutes in 2004 to under 16 minutes in 2018. However, it must be acknowledged that social media apps have also allowed readers to find more books, increasing book sales. With an increase in distractions, there is a decrease in reading, there should be more solutions geared towards limiting these distractions. 

> [The hidden cost of a smartphone: The effects of smartphone notifications on cognitive control from a behavioral and electrophysiological perspective](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC9671478/): Studies show that distractions from instant messages drastically reduce reading comprehension. Distracted readers ended up not being able to process the text as deeply as non distracted readers. Preventing these distractions would allow for increased reading comprehension by users. 

> [The Importance of Reading: Enhancing Cognitive Health](https://infinitemind.io/the-importance-of-reading-how-it-benefits-your-brain/): Reading strengthens different parts of the brain that aid in memory, focus, and language. Such strengthening helps prevent age related decline along with improving empathy, vocab, and critical thinking. Reading helps increase concentration in problem solving while passive media such as social media does not. Reading benefits you in ways the distractions from reading cannot. 

> [6 apps & productivity hacks I use to read more books](https://megcasebolt.com/reading-tools/): All of the apps listed are audiobook apps, book tracking apps, and motivations for reading, none of these apps are designed to prevent distractions while reading. While there do exist screen time apps, none that I was able to find with the explicit intention of setting up an environment for reading.There is currently not a product that properly and specifically fills this need. 

> [Study: Americans Wish They Read More, But Rarely Find The Time](https://www.forbes.com/sites/adamrowe1/2019/08/08/study-americans-wish-they-read-more-but-rarely-find-the-time/): Surveys find that about 81% of Americans wish they read more, yet only 52% of Americans read more than 15 minutes a day. People reported spending more time doing chores, watching TV, and being on social media, even when they expressed less joy doing those activities. People would get more joy out of reading than the distractions they end up filling their time with. 

> [Alarming Average Screen Time Statistics (2025)](https://explodingtopics.com/blog/screen-time-stats): The average person spends about 6 hours and 38 minutes on screens. These numbers are up 7.9% since 2013. Screentime is on the rise, taking away peoples time that they couldve otherwise spent reading. 

> [How to Read More](https://armedwithabook.com/how-to-read-more/): Advice for how to read more by this individual includes working towards a book goal, read multiple books, reflect on the book, and limit distractions. Such advice could be impliminted into a final product to seperate itself from other screent time limiting products.

>[How Can Reading Help Your Professional Career](https://www.readlax.com/blog/en/reading_help_professional_career#:~:text=Reading%20improves%20your%20vocabulary.&text=Before%20you%20even%20realize%20it,during%20negotiations%2C%20meetings%20or%20interviews.): Reading improves professional skills by improving vocabulary, communication, and focus. It also improves problem solving skills, creativity, and memory, adding to an indivduals ability to successfully do their job. By promoting reading, people can improve not just their enjoyment of hobbies, but also their career.

  ### Fish Compatibility :
> [Pet Ownership Statistics](https://spots.com/pet-ownership-statistics/): In the US, freshwater fish are the most common pet with 139.3 million pet freshwater fish. On average, people who own fish own 11-12 fish. 10.9% of American households own fish.

> [Fish compatability chart](https://theifishstore.com/pages/compatibility-chart?srsltid=AfmBOoosR8tx34vtcmi55-8a-rCYxWq0DvRP2xQ3zRtEid2s6HU_rPlN): While there already exists fish compatability charts, this charts can be hard to read, and are more for if you want to see if two fish are compatable, however most fish tanks have several types of fish, making it hard to figure out what fish would be a good addition to the tank. Additionally, such charts dont take into considersation other aspects of compatability, such as tank size, temperature, and salinaty.

> [10 Most Common Reasons Why the Fish Die](https://www.bunnycart.com/blog/10-most-common-reasons-why-the-fish-die/#:~:text=Improper%20tank%20is%20the%20most,few%20days%20or%20a%20week.) : Improper tank preparation, tank size, and tankmates are some of the most common ways fish die. These issues are largely caused by lack of knowledge in regards to the hobby of fish tanks.

> [Pain in fish](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pain_in_fish) : Fish fufil many of the scientifitc criteria for being able to experience pain, including nervous system and sensory receptors, opioid receptors, reduced responses to painful stimuli when given pain killers, pyscological changes to painful stimuli, and avoidance learning. While fish may not be able to experience pain the way humans experience pain, the common misconception that fish simply dont experience pain is an incorrect assumption.

>[Fish suffering at major pet supply companies](https://chhsnews.net/5692/opinion/fish-suffer-in-the-possession-of-major-pet-supply-companies/): Large pet supply companies are known for keeping fish in overcrowded, dirty tanks, often suffering from disease or dying soon after being purchased. Such fish were doomed from the begining, and even in proper tanks, will likely not live long. When these are the resources and expectations people have, it is easy to unintentionally mistreat fish. A product that would make the process of educatation easier would prevent the deaths of many fish.

>[10 Common Mistakes that Fishkeepers Make... oops?](https://moesaquatics.com/f/10-common-mistakes-that-fishkeepers-make-oops): Tank overcrowding, lack of fish research, too many fish too fast, and overfeeding are common mistakes new fish owners make, often times as a result of lack of research. Allowing a simple way for individuals to know what they can and cant do would prevent many of these mistakes. 

>[Do fish have feelings? Scientists say yes](https://thehumaneleague.org/article/do-fish-have-feelings): Not only do fish feel pain, but they also have feelings. Fish have been found to be able to experience anxiety, seek comfort, and have the ability to learn. Such insite on fish makes their current mistreatment even more tragic. 

>[New Tank Syndrome in Fish](https://www.petmd.com/fish/conditions/systemic/new-tank-syndrome-fish): New tank syndrome is the most common cause of death of pet fish. This is when new tanks do not have established biological filtration. Such events are so common due to a lack of education on keeping fish. 

>[What do Fish Want? Environmental Enrichment for Companion Fish](https://www.spca.nz/advice-and-welfare/article/what-do-fish-want-environmental-enrichment-for-companion-fish): Fish need enrichment, such as plants, rocks, and hiding spots, in order to reduce stress and promote natural behaviors. The sterotypical example of fish tanks are typically not like this at all, as a result many fish owners dont properly take care of their fish. 
 
>[Freshwater Aquarium Disease Prevention, Recognition and Treatment](https://www.aqueon.com/articles/aquarium-disease-prevention): Many fish diseases are caused by stress, poor water quality, and overcrowding. Quarantining new fish and monitoring tank conditions can prevent sickness, but many owners don’t know how. An app that tracks tank health, fish compatibility, and early warning signs could help prevent disease and save lives.
  ### Spending too much time on social media : 
>[Social Media and Teen Mental Health](https://www.aecf.org/blog/social-medias-concerning-effect-on-teen-mental-health?gad_source=1&gad_campaignid=10228890624&gbraid=0AAAAAD3xzvFbIY4VlpV3m6b0fAw_IpsKk&gclid=CjwKCAjw2vTFBhAuEiwAFaScwvv_MsnFOeL5WWO4ZJ2H-16vooDtue5v81D7pB3ynbdZ6aABnA09LhoCYNkQAvD_BwE): Social media can have harmful affects on teens, including sleep deficits, depres­sion, and poor self-image. Such problems are often caused by excessive social media use. Spending more time on social media often leads to these negatvie mental health affects. 

>[How Social Media Made Us Less Social](https://www.americansurveycenter.org/newsletter/how-social-media-made-us-less-social/):
Only 46% of Americans reported frequently interacting with close friends on social media. Passive use, such as scrolling, has been linked with lower real world socializing and negative mental health outcomes. 

>[Opal](https://www.opal.so/): Opal is a current screentime app that locks you out of certain apps at certain times of the day. You can unlock these apps but only after waiting a certain amount of time. As someone who uses this app, while it does work, it does not solve the whole problem given it requires a certain level of self control to not continuously unlock apps, delete the app itself, or unlock all apps for the rest of the time period(an allowed feature).  

>[Hank Green’s Focus Friend swapped my screen time for bean time](https://www.theverge.com/tech/763021/focus-friend-hank-green-app-store-ios-android): Focus friend is another app used to reduce screentime. This app locks all apps except for imessage, phone, and logistical apps, for selected amounts of time. This app also helps gamifys screentime by assigning points to minutes spent with the apps locked. The main issue I find with this app is its only usable for when you dont need to be on your phone, but there are times when you need to be able to be on your phone but still dont want to access distracting features. 

>[Addictive potential of social media, explained](https://med.stanford.edu/news/insights/2021/10/addictive-potential-of-social-media-explained.html): Social media is highly addictive, the way social media triggers dopamine pathways is very similar to drugs. Social media is designed to give contstant novelity and social reward to its users, keeping users hooked while also causing stress, anxiety, and learned helplessness. 

>[The impact of social media usage and lifestyle habits on academic achievement: Insights from a developing country context](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0190740920311713#:~:text=An%20hour%20spent%20on%20social,romantic%20relationships%20impairs%20academic%20performance.): The odds of good academic performance are lowered by 24% by an hour spent on social media. The academic performance of high school and college students are impaired by social media, limiting time spent on such apps has a good chance of subsequently performance.  

>[Revealing Average Screen Time Statistics](https://backlinko.com/screen-time-statistics): The average American spends 6 hours and 40 minutes on screens per day, with younger Americans averaging higher than older Americans. That is more than 1/3 of peoples waking hours. This much time on screens is harmful to peoples social, academic, and professional lives. 

>[The hazards of excessive screen time: Impacts on physical health, mental health, and overall well-being](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10852174/):Excessive screen time has been shown to negatively affect physical health, mental health, and overall well being. Phyiscally, prolonged use of digital devices can cause eye strain, neck pain, and back pain. Mentally, it can increase the risk of depression, anxiety, and mood disorders. Limiting screen time and promoting face-to-face interaction and physical activity are crucial strategies for improving health outcomes and social engagement, highlighting the need for tools that help manage and balance digital usage.

>[ScreenZen](https://www.screenzen.co/): ScreenZen is one of the only completely free screentime apps, while there are a lot of useful features, including limiting number of times one can access an app, limiting when you can access an app, and hard blocks. This app is lacking the social motivation to not break through limitations or delete the app. Nor does it block individual features of an app, instead it blocks the entire app.  

## Features 
  ### Distractions while reading :
>**Reminders at set times to read certain books**: Sending alerts and blocking social media apps at times set by users both reminds them and gives them the time to read. Many users feel like they dont have the time to read simply because they lose track of time on social media, this provides a solution to that issue

>**Reading goals** : Send users alerts about how far into their monthly reading goal(number of books, time spent reading, etc.) they are and encourage them to keep reading. Gamifying reading encourages people to read more and make more time for reading. 

>**Time comparison** : By logging both reading time and screentime, users would be able to better visualize how much potential reading time they spend on social media, motivating users to create more time by being on social media less. Additionally certain awards and badges could be given out the more time you log reading to incentivize reading. 

  ### Fish Compatibility :
>**Tank tracker**: A general tool that will keep track of the specific information of your tank. Stats include what fish you have, when you got those fish, the size and shape of the tank, water quality, etc. Such information will allow you to find compatable fish for your specific tank as a whole, instead of having to research individual pieces of information.

>**Fish compatability options** : A tool that takes in your tank and gives you a list of fish you are able to buy. Additionally you will be able to do the revearse and see if a certain fish would be compatable in your tank. If a fish would not be compatable, the product would explain why. This prevents fish miscompatability related deaths, along with educating the user

>**Problem diagnosis** : This tool would take in the information of your tank and the problem you are experiencing and output potential reasons for these issues and ways to solve the problem. This teaches the user more about fish tanks while also providing a route to fixing current issues.

  ### Spending too much time on social media : 
>**Scrolling blocker** : Certain apps are useful but have features that lead to distractions. For example snapchat and instagram can be used for communication, but the short content feature leads to time syncs. I suggest a feature of an app that only blocks the shorts features of apps instead the entire app. This will allow for people to still access the parts of an app they need, while avoiding the distracting portions.

>**Deletion prevention** : Many people are unable to use screen time apps due to the ability to simply delete the app. Deletion prevention in the form of having a person who is alerted when you delete the app ads a layer of social accountability that most other apps are missing. This will prevent people from deleting the app when they want to scroll social media

>**Screentime scores** : Adding a social aspect to the screentime app will keep people accountable. Most screentime apps have a feature where you are only 'allowed' to open an app for a certain number of times a day, however this is not true encouragement because you can sitll continue to open the app after youve reached your limit. A feature to encourage people to open their phone less is to create a competition element. If a user and some of their friends get the app, everyweek they will be able to see data from their friends screentime. This infomration will include screentime, social media specfici screentime, and number of times an app was opened. This provides both a social and competitive reasoning to have a user spend less time on their phone. 
